Greetings to all esteemed Dharma friends. Dear
Dharma friends, today, together with you, we, the Venerable Master Hoan Quan, will
share our
thoughts
on the benefits of practicing during the three-month summer
retreat of the monks. Now, let
us all join hands and recite the Buddha's name, seeking protection. Namo Buddha Shakyamuni, Namo Buddha Shakyamuni, Namo Buddha Shakyamuni. Dear esteemed Dharma friends and Buddhist followers,
according to the Buddha's teachings,
we
must consider whether our actions
benefit ourselves and
sentient beings before we proceed.
Therefore, when practicing during the three-
month summer retreat of the monks,
we must consider what benefits we gain
from this practice and
what benefits sentient beings gain from our practice
before we proceed, right?  It's
not that we become monks because we're bored and
have nothing to do.
Rather, our practice of becoming a monk must
bring practical benefits to our
present lives, to
this very life. Only then can we truly practice. Therefore, I respectfully
ask all fellow
practitioners to listen to this video and
contemplate deeply so that
we can diligently practice. Regarding the
benefits to our present lives,
the Buddha taught us
two
things we need to learn and
practice: the Four Noble Truths (which we must learn,
understand, and awaken to), and the Noble Eightfold Path (which we
must practice). The Four Noble Truths help
us to awaken to the truth, to the
reality of our existence, to recognize
all our suffering (the Truth of Suffering), and to
understand the
cause of suffering (the Truth of the Origin of Suffering). The Eightfold Path explains
how to resolve suffering,
and
where suffering ends (the Truth of the Cessation of Suffering),
which is
Nirvana. The Four Noble Truths consist of suffering, its cause, and its consequences.  The
Four Noble Truths address suffering and bring about absolute peace and happiness. The Truth of Suffering, the Truth of the Cause of Suffering, the Truth of the Cessation of Suffering, and the Truth of the Path to the Cessation of Suffering are called the Four Noble Truths. We need
to awaken to the truth about
suffering, the truth of the cause of suffering, the
truth about the cessation of suffering, and the truth about the practice of the cessation of suffering. The Eightfold Path is also part of the Four Noble Truths, but later it was separated into a separate part called the practice of the Noble Path. Initially, it was called Right View, the Eightfold
Path, or the Eightfold Noble Path. This path has eight fundamental causes and
conditions to build
it.
Within this path are
Right View, Right Thought, Right Speech, Right Action, Right Deeds, Right Effort, Right Mindfulness,
and Right Concentration. These
eight branches are called the
Eightfold Path.
This Eightfold Path belongs to the Noble
Truth of the Path, one of the Four Noble Truths.
Therefore, if someone practices outside the Four
Noble Truths and the Eightfold Noble Path, they will
not
benefit or attain
liberation in this present life. If they do not practice correctly...  Enlightenment
about the Four Noble Truths is impossible without practicing the Eightfold Path. The Eightfold
Path, also known as the
unique path, is the only path that
leads sentient beings out of suffering. All the practices
we are following, based on the Buddha's teachings,
belong to the Eightfold Path. The Eightfold
Path begins with Right
View. This Right View is the Four Noble Truths;
it leads to enlightenment. Right View
belongs to the Four Noble Truths, while Right Thought, Right Speech, Right Action, Right Livelihood, Right Effort, Right Mindfulness, and Right Concentration
are all practices starting from
Right View downwards,
taking Right View as the foundation. That is, taking the Four Noble Truths as the
foundation,
taking the Truth of Suffering, the Truth of the Origin of Suffering, and the Truth of the Cessation of Suffering as the foundation
to practice the Eightfold Path.
Let me give you an example to help
you understand: a sutra
we have
practiced, a sutra on successful business.
In that sutra on successful business,
the Buddha talks about the
causes of successful business
and the causes of unsuccessful business.
Those causes
belong to...  The
Noble Truth of Suffering, as you see, is that the cause
belongs to the
Noble Truth of Suffering, and the way of practicing it
belongs to the Noble Truth of the Path. The Noble Truth of Cessation is that
whoever keeps their
promise in business achieves
success. That belongs to the Noble Truth of Cessation,
meaning we must practice to eliminate suffering. The
Noble Truth of Cessation, in its true sense,
must eliminate all suffering. Within that, there
is partial elimination of suffering for lay people,
while for monastics, it is
complete elimination of suffering. However, monastics
cannot practice the same method of successful business
anymore; they must practice a different method. This
is the Mind of the Bodhisattva, taking the method taught by the
Buddha for lay Buddhists.
The part we practice to
achieve business success still
belongs to the Noble Truth of Cessation,
that is, eliminating suffering. If someone has promised to make an
offering and then keeps their promise, the
result will
be success in business as planned. But
if someone has promised an offering and then makes an offering
exceeding the promised amount, then
when calculating the outcome, it will be success.  No matter
what business you're in, when you actually start
doing it, the results often
exceed your initial expectations.
Part of the scriptures states
that if someone fails in business in this life, it's
because in a previous life they broke
promises – promises made, offerings made,
good deeds made, but then failed to fulfill them.
Therefore, in this life,
their business doesn't turn out as planned and they suffer
losses. Isn't that suffering? Loss is suffering. The Noble
Truth of Suffering states that the cause of suffering is
broken
promises, right? So, their
suffering is reflected in the Four Noble Truths.
And
what is the Noble Eightfold Path? The Noble Eightfold Path is the method of
practice. If you make a promise and then do
n't keep it, you lose your
right speech, right? Because right
view and right thinking are key. Then comes right speech.
So, you bring yourself back to the
wrong way of thinking. All the
Buddha's scriptures are contained
within the Four Noble Truths and the Noble Eightfold Path.  Because
the Buddha only taught sentient beings the
causes of suffering and how to resolve
suffering, he didn't teach anything else. That
encompasses the entire life of both
lay people and monastics.
Therefore, it is said that the Four Noble Truths are
what one must awaken to, and the Noble Eightfold Path is
what one must practice. Only then can we
have a peaceful life if we are lay people, and
liberation from the cycle of birth and death if we are monastics. If we are lay people, we are
liberated from worldly suffering and
attain a happy life.
Therefore, all of the Buddha's scriptures,
all of his teachings, regardless of the
aspect of life, are
nothing more than the
Four Noble Truths and the Noble Eightfold Path. Do you understand, dear fellow
practitioners? So, if anyone asks you what you are practicing,
tell them to practice what you
need to awaken to – the Four Noble Truths – and
what you need to practice – the Noble Eightfold Path.
Anyone who practices,
when they think, should consider whether this is correct
and whether it is the Four Noble Truths. If they find it incorrect, then
they should...  We shouldn't practice. Is this consistent
with the Eightfold Path? If it's not consistent,
then we shouldn't practice. We should ask if this
practice belongs to the Four Noble Truths or the Eightfold
Path.
For those who have practiced
a little more thoroughly, we know how to
think and contemplate about the Four Noble Truths
and the Eightfold Path. From the Four
Noble Truths and the Eightfold Path, we have the
Three Dharma Seals and the Four Dharma Seals. The
Three Dharma Seals are suffering, impermanence, and non-self. The Four
Dharma Seals are suffering, impermanence, non-self, and emptiness.
At
home, we can't do too well
because it's very difficult and requires
deep meditation. But we can contemplate suffering,
impermanence, and non-self, which we've been practicing since the
beginning of the three-
month retreat.
We've been contemplating a lot, and
before that, we've been practicing and
talking about it. But the
most in-depth thing is that from the beginning of the
retreat program until now,
we've been contemplating a lot about...  These are the three Dharma seals, dear fellow
practitioners, do you see?
The Buddha taught this: no matter
how much you offer, if you do
n't contemplate the Dharma, the merit is
very small. But if you contemplate the Dharma, the
merit is very great. So what is this contemplation of the Dharma?
We must contemplate suffering, impermanence, and
non-self. Suffering belongs to the Four Noble Truths,
right? Impermanence and non-self also
belong to the Four Noble Truths.
People often contemplate impermanence and non-self to enter the Cessation of
Suffering, dear fellow practitioners. So, when
we practice according to the teachings of the monks, or during the three-month
retreat of the monks, we will
understand more clearly the Four Noble Truths and the Eightfold
Path.
We will understand more clearly suffering,
impermanence, and non-self, right? That is the benefit
for us: we increase our
enlightenment, increase our merit and blessings, right?
Blessings are
born when we are enlightened,
dear fellow practitioners, do you see?
So, the benefit for those who
practice is that it
increases our
wisdom, deepens our enlightenment, and makes us more proficient in contemplating the
Dharma. And whoever has become proficient in contemplating the Dharma...
Then that person will be able to prevent and eliminate much
evil. Our suffering is
due to
our ignorance; we think
evil thoughts, speak evil words, and perform
evil actions. Therefore, after three months of practicing
according to the monastic retreat program,
we will attain enlightenment, prevent and eliminate
evil, and
transform our karmic forces in the
present moment. If anyone diligently practices according to the three-
month monastic retreat program,
let us practice with great effort. When
our time comes, let us focus on our
practice. Because if our mind changes,
our karma will change; if our mind changes, our
karma will change. The
more enlightened we become, the faster our karma will
change, dear fellow practitioners.
The monastic retreat program of three months is
dedicated
to meditation and contemplation, which is contemplating the
Dharma. Only through contemplating the Dharma can we attain enlightenment
and apply it to our lives, transforming our
character. And when our
character changes, our karmic
forces change, dear practitioners.  Remember this:
if we practice but
don't attain enlightenment, if our nature doesn't
change, then our karmic force will absolutely not
change. Because our life circumstances
are karmic force. So, if we just
change our enlightenment, that is, if
our understanding becomes
right view, if our
mind becomes virtuous, then
immediately our karma will change.
For example, in our previous life, we had a fixed
karma like this. But now, if we
practice and transform it, we
will transform that fixed karma.
Mindful contemplation, for example, the
Sutra of Compassionate Water and Gray Dharma. If the
Buddha had
not given rise to the thought of insulting others,
he would have eliminated the karma of vengeful
spirits seeking revenge, right? And in
the Dhammapada,
there is a sutra about
a man named Pham Tri who was roofing a
house. The Buddha knew that
soon this man would die and fall
into hell. So the Buddha went to
him and said to
him...  The intention was for the Buddha to preach
a Dharma teaching to him so that he would attain
enlightenment and not be reborn in the lower realms upon his death.
However, he refused the
Buddha, saying he wanted to finish his work
first before he would listen. He absolutely refused to
listen to the Buddha. Because he didn't listen to the Buddha and
therefore couldn't attain enlightenment, the
Buddha went a short distance before
he fell and
died. His consciousness was reborn in hell, into
the realm of suffering.
So we see that the
power of hearing a Dharma teaching and attaining enlightenment
can transform countless
lifetimes of suffering.
If he had listened to the Buddha's
Dharma teaching and
attained enlightenment, that is, enlightenment about the Four Noble Truths, the cause
of suffering—
he only needed to attain enlightenment,
not practice. Just attaining
enlightenment alone would have transformed
countless lifetimes of suffering and allowed him to be reborn in
heaven. Is
n't that happiness? Therefore, our
enlightenment brings us many
results and benefits.
That brings much happiness, my esteemed friends, don't you see?
Therefore, listening to the Dharma is something we
need to do. But according to
this practice program, after listening to the Dharma, we
must also contemplate the Dharma and put it into practice. So
we will have practical results
right now, which is
very beneficial. These are benefits that
transform our karma. If
there is heavy negative karma in our family,
our minds will change, our karma will
change. We also dedicate the merit,
so it is very beneficial.
Therefore,
we must strive diligently for our own benefit. As for the benefits for sentient beings, they are
countless, my esteemed friends.
When we practice, those who have a connection
with us also benefit from our practice. They follow us. If they seek revenge against us, they will follow us, right? If
they
don't follow us, then when we attain enlightenment, they will
also attain enlightenment. That is the
benefit. The mind's contemplation and complete awareness have a
rare karmic connection, meaning that when sitting and
working, one sees something  The Lord's mind, having just attained enlightenment,
turned out to be doing
something like this: in our previous practice, we
forgot to write the section on
dedicating merit to sentient beings in
this realm who have a karmic connection with us. We only
dedicated merit to this and that. During
regular practice days, we couldn't
dedicate merit in the same way. However, due to the
power of the Six Harmonies of all of us
practicing together, the merit we
dedicate will cause sentient beings
in this realm who have a karmic connection with
us, whether they support us or hinder us, to attain
enlightenment and receive blessings. Therefore, we have
adjusted the section on dedicating merit
to sentient beings in this realm who
have a karmic connection with us.
Then, they will be able to rely on the
Six Harmonies, rely on the Three
Jewels, and begin to receive the benefits of taking
refuge in the Three Jewels and developing Bodhicitta. Do
you see the benefits? This includes
our own family members and other sentient beings.
Therefore, the merit of practicing during the three-month
retreat of the monks, chanting scriptures, listening to Dharma, and
practicing meditation is immeasurable.  Dear fellow
practitioners, it brings happiness to us
in this life and many lives to come, and it
benefits us on our path of cultivating and seeking
Supreme Enlightenment. It creates in
us the capacity for
meditative contemplation of phenomena when we encounter situations,
right? When we encounter
situations and have the capacity for meditative contemplation,
we will be able to contemplate and
reflect. Thanks to that skillful contemplative thinking, we will be able to
distinguish and recognize the
processing of information in our minds
as good or bad, right or
wrong. Do you understand? As for the
part about the Noble Eightfold Path,
the Master will explain it in more detail later. For now,
we only
need a brief overview. The Noble Eightfold Path is the path of truth
belonging to the Four Noble Truths, and the Noble Eightfold Path
consists of right view, which is enlightenment, the
Four Noble Truths, and right thinking. That is, in all
things, we must use the Four Noble Truths to
think, we use the Buddha's teachings to find the
Buddha's teachings, and within that, there must be the Four Noble Truths.
Then, when we see that...
This practice of ours contains the Four Noble Truths,
and we will continue to practice them.
For example, regarding successful business, we
should practice right speech and right action.
When we have right speech and right
action, we will live by
right livelihood. If we don't have right speech and right
action, we will live by wrong livelihood. Wrong livelihood will lead to
suffering and disharmony later on. When we realize
that we are living by right livelihood,
then we should strive diligently.
Do you understand, dear fellow practitioners? When we
strive diligently, we will have right mindfulness. With right mindfulness,
we will strive on
the four points of mindfulness: body, feelings, mind, and phenomena.
Do you understand, dear fellow practitioners? Right mindfulness is the Four Foundations of Mindfulness.
That is the four points of body, feelings,
mind, and phenomena. Then, when we
return to mindfulness, we focus on the mind. Because it
is about cultivating the higher mind, when
we have right view, we will use right thinking. With
this right view, we will use
right thinking about suffering, the
cause of suffering, and how to resolve suffering.
We have right speech, right action, right
livelihood, right effort, and right
mindfulness.  This is the Dharma attainment
here. Our minds are elevated to the
higher realm. Do you all understand, esteemed fellow practitioners?
This is very profound if explained in detail. But
here, let's just understand it
briefly. Then, when the master
explains, the mind-illuminating Han Guan will continue.
The master has promised to
explain the Four Foundations of Mindfulness and the Right Path
for us, but
the master has already mentioned this in other lectures.
Therefore, in
this part, understanding and
practicing it is enough for us.
Respectfully, esteemed fellow practitioners, the mind-illuminating Han Guan
would like to briefly explain the benefits of
practicing during the three-month summer retreat
of the monks. This is so that you can
see the benefits and strive diligently.
This is just a
brief overview; the benefits are
immense, esteemed fellow practitioners. When
we practice like this,
all the Buddhas rejoice and gather here. The
monks practice during the three-month summer retreat...
Then, the
monks cultivate their
minds and bodies, harmonizing with each other, and all the
Buddhas rejoice. Because of such merit,
everyone who gives to the monks in this way
receives blessings, which they then dedicate
to their ancestors, so that they may be
liberated. So, if we persevere in our practice, and
if someone gives us something and
we accept it, that person also receives
blessings because we uphold the precepts. We
have right view, we have enlightenment, so when they
give us something, they also receive blessings. Even
though we are lay Buddhists, if our children give
us anything, they
also receive blessings, right? So,
dear fellow practitioners, you can ask your children for
anything. Give them money to
buy breakfast, and when they come back and ask for a
piece, they give it to you. Then you can
dedicate the blessings of your practice to them.
Seeing how much your child has practiced, you can also
dedicate it to
your child. Because of the merit, your child will be happy to receive it from you, and may
this child also be able to
eliminate karmic obstacles, diligently practice in the Buddha Dharma,
and receive benefits and
happiness.  Isn't that joyful? Because
the Buddha taught that giving alms to the wise, giving alms to those who
uphold the precepts, giving alms to the enlightened,
all bring blessings. For monks,
their aspiration
is liberation, so the
blessings are very great. As lay Buddhists, we
still
seek worldly things,
so our blessings are smaller,
but that doesn't mean we have no blessings at all, dear fellow
practitioners. It's just smaller compared to the
monks. Even if people give
alms, no matter how much they give, it's
still giving to evil people, right? And yet, it
still generates some merit.
That merit doesn't lead to liberation; it
still leads to suffering, along with suffering. But if
we have the Bodhi vow, if we
diligently practice, if we are practicing
meditation, if we are practicing listening to the Dharma to
attain enlightenment, then
whatever our children or relatives give us, we
accept it.  Blessed are you, dear
Dharma friends? Do you see that what your children give
you, your husbands give you, your wives give
you, your parents give you, you
joyfully receive, and then you dedicate the
merit and vow to it, just like the vows of the monks and the
Three Jewels? Although you don't make vows like the monks and the Three Jewels,
whoever receives the merit,
with a pure mind and an enlightened mind, will
also receive
blessings. Do you see the
benefits of practicing during the three-month rainy season
retreat? That is, we practice
diligently without
interruption. This Dharma practice program is
also part of the rainy season retreat program,
so during these three months we
don't interrupt it. That is a form of diligence,
our diligence towards
enlightenment, dear Dharma friends. Is
n't that beneficial? Very beneficial! If you like it, then your
mind will be completely focused. I hope you, dear Dharma friends, will
awaken and deeply understand the benefits of practicing
during the three-month rainy season retreat,
so that we may be diligent and even more diligent,
so that we may benefit ourselves.  The benefit
to those around us is the
benefit
to all living beings. Therefore, we must
know how to live in a way that benefits ourselves and the world.
When we always have the
thought of living for our own benefit and benefiting the
world through the Buddha's teachings, that is called
the thought of liberation, that is called true
diligence, that is called diligent enlightenment, diligent
liberation, dear fellow practitioners.
Therefore, we must be absolutely diligent. For those who have renounced the world,
meditation is very
beneficial because the diligence of a
monastic in a single thought is different from the
diligence of a lay person. The diligence of a
lay person is still within the
pursuit of worldly happiness, only aiming towards
liberation. That is, aiming towards
liberation. A
monastic also diligently practices, but diligently walks the
path of liberation. You see, dear fellow practitioners,
these two kinds of diligence are different
and have two different results. However, the merit of
diligent practice is not
insignificant, the blessings are not small, it is very
beneficial, and it is the first step towards
achieving enlightenment when we have the right conditions to renounce the world.  Dear
fellow practitioners, may your minds be focused and
focused. I encourage you all
and rejoice in your diligent practice and focused mindfulness. I also respectfully
bow to your diligence. Namo Buddha
Shakyamuni. Mindful focus and
focused mindfulness.
Moving on to the Q&A section, regarding
questions related to the practice during
this summer retreat program:
Question for the Head Teacher: During the
meditation period of cycle 1 of the summer
retreat program, I
have some questions that I would like
you to answer. Question 1: Sentient beings are
subject to birth, aging, sickness, and death. Inanimate objects are subject to birth, existence,
decay, and destruction. I heard the teacher say that
sentient beings are reborn due to good and
evil karma. So,
where do inanimate objects come from? That's a
very good question, isn't it, fellow
practitioners? Inanimate objects don't
reincarnate, but they are called "
formed." Where do they come from? They are
formed from the merit and karma of sentient beings.  Is that clear?
Sentient beings are beings with consciousness like us and
animals. Those six realms are called sentient beings,
and these beings are reborn and
reborn within these six realms, called
reincarnation in the cycle of rebirth. They are born in one place
and die in the same place. For example, they are born in the human realm
and die in the human realm. After dying in the
human realm, they are born into another realm
within the six realms of reincarnation, they are born there and
die there. After dying there, they are born again
within the six realms of reincarnation. For example, they
might be born as humans and die in the
human realm, but then be reborn into the human
realm again, but with different
parents, right? Parents from a different
region or place. Or they might be
born in the same place, but with
different parents, their form changed. It
could be that the same sentient being
is their parent, but their form has
changed. Is that clear, dear sentient beings?
The Buddha taught it that way. So what about
non-sentient beings, for example, trees, houses, land, air,
wind,
and all these things? Where do they come from to be
born?  It arises from the merit or
karma of sentient beings; it arises from the mind
of sentient beings. The mind is pure and contemplative. Let's
take an example: my mind desires a
house, and that house must surely be built,
right? I work hard, I strive, I earn
money, and I will build the house according to
my wishes. Isn't that the house born
from the mind of the homeowner?
This person has the ability to work and
desires to buy a car, this generation, that
generation, that car is
formed from the mind of that person, right?
Everything in this world is
formed by the mind of that person, right?
Those are things we see, for example,
in this forest, suddenly the local
authorities decide that
this place must be
transformed into a residential area. That's the intention of that
person, and after a while, due to
circumstances, it spontaneously arises from that mind and
becomes a residential area, right?
And the Buddha taught that
all phenomena are created by the mind; all phenomena are created by the mind.
And as for this earth...  The
formation of the sun, moon, solar system, and
galaxy—all things are created by the karma
of sentient beings. With the wisdom
of the Buddha, we only see the
surface. Do you see, dear fellow practitioners, that the
surface is the ultimate manifestation of this universe,
created by the mind? We only see the part that is created by
our minds. For example, if I want a house
like this, I will go to work and
build this house. It is
created by my mind. But the higher cause
is the formation of
this world. With the wisdom of the Buddha, the Buddha
knows that this world is formed
by the minds of sentient beings, by their karma.
And beyond this world, there are countless
other worlds, encompassing the
karma of all sentient beings. It's not
just in this one world. In
this world, there is the Buddha Shakyamuni who attained
enlightenment, but in other worlds, there are
other Buddhas who attained enlightenment.
And in the scriptures, the Buddha also
clearly teaches that sentient beings have karma like
this; when the world is destroyed, they will move
to another world to receive their karmic retribution. It
cannot be destroyed.  Therefore,
these unintentional things are born, formed, and destroyed by the karma
or merit of sentient beings, stemming from
their good or evil hearts. The Great Being
sees that they do not
perish. That is due to the mind of
sentient beings, seeing the mind's reflection. The Complete Contemplation only says
this: In our society, there are
rich and poor people, right?
Rich people can buy
things with a long lifespan,
genuine things. But poor people
have to buy fake things, things with a
short lifespan. Although
those things still undergo birth, growth, decay, and destruction,
right? For example, if we just talk about buying
a Chinese rice cooker,
it is also born, made by people,
it exists in the world, and it
decays very quickly. But a
German rice cooker, for instance, is
also born, but it exists in
this world for a very long time before decaying.
Therefore, it is subject to the cycle of
birth, growth, decay, and destruction, which is due to the merit of
sentient beings.
Have you understood the brief meaning of this unintentional phenomenon, esteemed fellow practitioners? Here, I,
Hoan Quan, answer
that sentient beings are unintentionally subject to the cycle of
birth,
growth, decay, and destruction. Destruction is the nature of plants, while birth, growth,
decay, and destruction are of matter, stemming from the good
and evil minds of human beings. The good and evil minds of
sentient beings are formed and
destroyed by their karmic forces. That's how we understand it, and the
whole world is also formed or
destroyed by the karma of sentient beings.
That is the Buddha's teaching. Hoan Quan now
moves on to
another question: Dear fellow practitioners,
during the three-month rainy season retreat,
what should Buddhists do to increase their merit?
Hello, Ms. Yen. I understand that the three-month rainy season retreat
is a good opportunity for lay
Buddhists to accumulate
merit and
increase their good karma, supporting the Sangha in their practice. During this time,
how can I create the
most merit? I hope you can guide a
beginner like me
so that I can practice accordingly.  I respectfully offer my
gratitude to the Venerable Master for his meritorious deeds. Dear fellow practitioners,
during the three-month rainy season retreat of the
monks, we cultivate wisdom,
enlightenment, and higher wisdom, and practice the higher precepts
according to this program of practice. This
program follows the three-month rainy season retreat
of the monks, and we also practice the
Buddha's teachings. Furthermore, this practice involves giving alms and
offerings to the
Sangha, which brings
us much merit. However,
generally speaking, all monks in all places share the same intention: to cultivate virtue according to the three-month
rainy season retreat.
Therefore, there is a
greater shared merit. We should
cultivate the intention to make offerings to the Three Jewels,
doing
our duties to support the
Three
Jewels, hoping that the Three Jewels will remain in the world and
bring benefits to sentient beings.
This intention will increase
our merit. Practicing in this way will
bring much merit. Firstly, it is the
practice of following the three-month rainy season retreat.  During the three-month retreat, we chant scriptures,
listen to Dharma teachings, and meditate to attain
enlightenment and practice the liberation methods
according to the Four Noble Truths and the Eightfold Path, cultivating
profound wisdom to transform
our karmic forces. Secondly, we
make vows to make offerings to the Three Jewels,
dedicating the merit to ourselves,
our families, and the spirits of our ancestors,
parents, and relatives from past lives and
previous lives, so that we may
cultivate a grateful heart and benefit all sentient beings.
Please read the
following question: During the three-month retreat,
how do Buddhist practitioners meditate at home when
facing unpleasant and
painful situations in the family?
I would like to ask, during the three-month
retreat program with the monks
of the club, I have had a few arguments
with my husband that took several days to resolve. After these arguments, it was
very difficult for me to
concentrate on the meditation topic
because I was troubled. I would like to ask,
what should I do to avoid
interrupting my practice due to external distractions?  That's a
very good question, isn't it, esteemed fellow
practitioners? Here, the Mind-
Illuminating Contemplation of the Pure ...
And we can
stop the unwholesome thoughts and intentions, which bring
great benefits. That's the
power that meditation brings, isn't it?
That's already the power of meditation, that's the
result of meditation. So, aren't
we practicing? No, we're not practicing. So,
here we just continue with how to
eliminate them quickly. So, how to
eliminate them quickly?
Before entering the ceremony, the esteemed practitioners will
address the Buddha like this: Today I have
these troublesome things. Troublesome thing A,
matter B, matter C. Now, when I
enter this meditation session, I will
have these delusive thoughts
creeping in because I am still
seeking worldly happiness.
These delusive thoughts come in a lot. If you have a
possessive mind, then you feel sad about your husband or
wife. If you don't have a possessive mind, then you wouldn't be
sad, right? And if you're not sad,
where would those delusive thoughts come from? So, after addressing them
like that, during this practice session,
I ask for the blessings of the
Buddhas, Bodhisattvas, and holy Sangha, and the
Dharma protectors. And during the
meditation process, whenever...  When that
distracting thought arises, we let
it go. Then, if we can't remember it,
we just need to reread the meditation topic
three times, and we'll be able to contemplate a
little. That way, we'll increase our mind
and
intellect compared to before, right?
Gradually, we'll become proficient in letting go of
distracting
thoughts so we can practice meditation better.
That's the way you,
dear fellow practitioners, solve problems. Because of this mindset, you
will be able to solve
bigger problems. The mind that
guides you is
practicing compassion. Compassion is, after
you finish your practice, you dedicate the merit to your
spouse, to those who are
troubled by you. That's compassion. I
dedicate it to them so they may attain
enlightenment in the Buddha Dharma, right? That's
practicing the liberation of loving-kindness. Do you understand, dear fellow practitioners?
We dedicate the merit of our practice,
hoping they will be peaceful and
happy. That's called liberating loving-kindness.
Do you understand, dear fellow practitioners? We dedicate the merit of our practice,
hoping they will be peaceful and happy.  In
the Sutra of Loving-Kindness, the Buddha
taught: "May
all beings—short, long, tall, short,
two-legged, four-legged, multi-legged,
legless—born and
unborn—be happy."
Here, we dedicate the merit to those beings with whom we
have a connection. We
dedicate it to them. Therefore, in all
our practice, after
completing our practice, we dedicate
this merit to our loved ones, to
all those
connected to us, so that they may attain enlightenment.
All sentient beings attain this and
that. This is loving-kindness, dear fellow
practitioners. If we
have no merit, where does loving-kindness come from? When
we make offerings to the Three Jewels and dedicate that merit, that is
also loving-kindness. Do you
understand, dear fellow practitioners? Sometimes, people don't understand what loving-kindness is. Loving-kindness
means
creating merit and
dedicating that merit to others.
That is compassion in all
our practice and all our actions.
Our goodness, we all
practice cultivating loving-kindness. There
is no practice that doesn't involve
dedication. Dedication is cultivating loving-kindness,
so we must understand this to diligently practice. Only through
practice can we cultivate loving-kindness,
and only with loving-kindness can we resolve loving-kindness. Without practice, where would the loving-kindness come from to resolve it? Then,
if you practice without practicing,
you don't practice, you do
n't practice, you don't practice, you don't practice, you don't practice, you don't practice, you do
n't practice, you don't practice, you don't practice, you don't
practice, you don't practice, you have a
diligent mind, right? That diligent mind, in good
deeds, in enlightenment, to resolve loving-kindness
for others. Therefore,
resolving loving-kindness also requires loving-kindness;
without loving-kindness, it cannot be resolved.
We practice and pray for Supreme Enlightenment; that
belongs to loving-kindness, praying for the benefit
of sentient beings. That is loving-kindness. From
that compassionate mind, we
practice, we generate the merit
of loving-kindness, and then we dedicate
that merit to sentient beings.
Therefore, we Buddhists must understand the cultivation of
loving-kindness.  What is the meaning of "cultivating diligently and dedicating merit to all sentient beings"? This is
called "liberating
the mind." Those sentient beings have an
object of merit. A two-legged object could be a wife, husband,
child, or something else. A multi-legged object
could be a hungry ghost or something else. Sentient
beings who haven't been born into
this world could be parents, grandparents, etc. We are
in many realms of existence, aren't we?
Or are we animals or something else? Sentient beings who haven't been born yet, or those who have been born,
are still in the womb,
in the womb. Actually, all sentient beings are in the process of being
born,
existing; that's called being born, understand? But
being born means being on this earthly plane, in this
human realm.
So, either
sentient beings are in other realms, they are either
born or not yet born. That is, they are still in the
womb, in the womb, they are
called not yet born. Sentient beings who have been born are called already
born, they have formed a body.
Then the mind returns to the realm of contemplation.
That's how I answer this question, and I hope you, dear fellow
practitioners, will see that you...  The more we practice, the more
enlightened we become, and the more we realize
we are bringing benefit to ourselves and
to all sentient beings. Therefore, we should strive diligently, should
n't we, esteemed fellow practitioners?
In the following days of practice, please
send in any questions you may have. On the 20th, the day of
Dharma Discourse, I will discuss the
aspects of practice that you have
achieved and written about in the "Daily Happiness Feelings" group. I
will take the Dharma-related posts and
share what constitutes correct thinking, what is
incorrect thinking, and
what needs to be improved. Today, I
also have some posts about
happiness, but on the 20th, it will be a
separate topic: sharing the
happiness that you have experienced through the practice of the
An cư kiết hạ (summer retreat) program.
Therefore, I respectfully request that you
continue to ask questions
and express
your feelings of happiness about this practice.  Through this practice,
the mind will be able to see
how the esteemed practitioners are practicing,
which thoughts are correct, which are incorrect,
and what thoughts need to be further developed. To
further cultivate the mind of the esteemed practitioners, following the
articles
compiled by the page administrators, the mind
will answer. We will
gain many benefits, much
joy, and many results from
this three-month retreat program
of the Sangha. We also have
a dedication of merit to
our ancestors on the 8th of July, when the Master
organizes the Dharma Assembly to dedicate merit to
those who made offerings and to our ancestors.
We must strive diligently in our
practice so that we have merit to
dedicate. On that day,
we can say: "We
have
joyfully practiced the Dharma according to the three-month
retreat of the Sangha. We are joyful with the three-
month retreat."  The words of the monks
are truly sincere. Later, if
something unexpected happens to
our family, we can make this vow.
In the year of the Ox 2021, I sincerely and
joyfully followed the three-month retreat of the
monks, sincerely practicing, reciting scriptures,
listening to Dharma teachings, and practicing
meditation for those three months. This vow of mine is
sincere, wishing for blessings to
overcome these and those things. That is
a wonderful sincerity, dear fellow practitioners. That is a
wonderful merit, because
this merit is the merit of enlightenment. Therefore,
this sincere vow will
help you resolve
immediate and necessary matters, which is very
beneficial. With a sincere heart, I
wish you all continued diligence
and once again I sincerely bow in reverence to your diligent
practice,
because this diligence will
result in the continuation of the Buddha Dharma in the
world. Therefore, with a sincere heart, I respectfully bow in
reverence to your diligence.
May the true
Dharma be proclaimed and may the true Dharma
endure for a long time.  In this world, thanks to the diligence
of those who practice the Dharma, from monastics to lay people,
during this three-month summer retreat,
for the monastics and the
diligence of our lay Buddhists, diligently
practicing the Dharma of Rejoicing in the three-
month summer retreat of the Sangha, we respectfully and sincerely bow in reverence. At
this time, we respectfully invite all our esteemed fellow practitioners to
join hands and dedicate the merit,
wishing to
direct this merit to all disciples and sentient beings, that they may all
choose to attain Buddhahood.
[Music]
The golden chrysanthemum flower entwined with oil, even a pig
cannot leave it. The
golden chrysanthemum club, the hundred-
cultivation club, even if it is difficult, even if it is difficult, it is not insurmountable. Even if it is difficult, it
will be overcome. The
golden chrysanthemum club, the joyful club of practicing the Buddha's Dharma. Six Harmonies:
One body, one dwelling, two mouths, one mind, one auspicious connection, four precepts,
one cultivation, five
understandings.  Harmony and harmony,
where there is harmony, there is peace, where there is peace, where there is six harmony,
there is liberation.
[Music] The
Golden Chrysanthemum Club, the
joyful club, practicing Buddhist Dharma, the Six Harmonies, the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club, the joyful club, together fulfilling our duties, the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club, the
joyful club, together cultivating faith, together
cultivating Bodhi Mind, protecting and
spreading Buddhist Dharma widely throughout the world.
[Music] The
Golden Flower of Blessing, wrapped in the color of
liberation, the Golden Chrysanthemum Club, practicing to seek
liberation, helping everyone, the
Blessing Club, the joyful club, practicing to seek
liberation, the Golden Blessing Club, the joyful club, the
joyful
club.
[Music] The
Golden National Club, practicing six harmonies, respecting the body,
practicing and fulfilling our duties, mind harmony,
always equal, speech harmony, encouraging
each other, precept harmony, Dharma harmony, building harmony, towards
liberation,
benefit harmony, understanding and
loving, the club, offering and being
Buddhist practitioners at Ba
Va Temple, always together in love
to pray for freedom from suffering,
always together in love.
To
pray for
compassion
[music]
many yellow chrysanthemums wrapped around the pig's head, even the pig's head is
not thick, the second yellow chrysanthemum, Saint Cao,
even the pig's head is not the color, the
Yellow Chrysanthemum Club, the club of diligent cultivation,
even if it is difficult,
even if it is difficult, it is not impossible,
even if it is difficult, it will be overcome, it will be overcome, the Yellow
Chrysanthemum Club, the club of joyful cultivation of the Six Harmonies of Buddhism, the
Chrysanthemum Club, the club of joyful cultivation of the Six Harmonies of Buddhism,
one body, one action, two mouths, one action, no conflict, three minds, one story, four realms, one practice, five understandings, one action, six benefits, one
cloud, where there is a flower, where there is joy,
where there is peace, there is liberation
[music] that Chrysanthemum
Club, the club of
joyful cultivation of the Six Harmonies of Buddhism, the
Yellow Chrysanthemum Club, the club of joyful work together, the
Yellow Chrysanthemum Club, the club of
joyful cultivation together, cultivating faith together, cultivating faith together, cultivating Bodhi
Mind, protecting the Three Jewels, spreading
Buddhist teachings widely throughout the world
[music]
the golden blessing wrapped around the head  The flower of
liberation, the Golden Chrysanthemum Club, practicing to pray for
liberation, helping everyone, the
Golden Blessing Club, the Peaceful Club,
practicing to pray for liberation, the Golden Blessing Club, the
Peaceful Club, the Golden Blessing Club, the Six Harmonies Club, respectfully
practicing and fulfilling duties, peace of mind, constant equality, harmonious
speech, encouraging
each other, harmonious precepts, Dharma, Sangha,
Hung Kien, Hoa, towards
liberation, Loi Hoa, understanding and compassion, the
club, offering and being Buddhist practitioners
at Ba
V Temple, always believing together to pray for compassion,
always loving together
to pray for
compassion.
[Music] The
golden chrysanthemum wrapped around, even if there is a pig, it will
not move, the golden chrysanthemum flower, Saint Cao,
even if there is a pig, it will not change
color, the saying is showing. Golden Chrysanthemum Club, a hundred
practitioners, rich and poor, even if there is difficulty, it will not be difficult,
even if there is hardship, it will be overcome. Golden Chrysanthemum Club, the
Peaceful Club, practicing Buddhist
Dharma, Six Harmonies, Golden Chrysanthemum Club, the
Peaceful Club, practicing Buddhist Dharma, Six Harmonies,
one body in harmony, two mouths in harmony, three
Harmony of mind, harmony of the four realms,
harmonious practice of the fivefold path,
where there is peace, where there is tranquility, where there is liberation, there
is liberation.
[Music] The
ancient chrysanthemum club, joyful practice of
Buddhist Dharma, the golden chrysanthemum club,
joyful club, working together,
golden chrysanthemum club, joyful club, cultivating
love.
[Music]
The love of cultivating Bodhi mind, protecting and preserving, spreading
Buddhist teachings widely throughout the world.
[Music] The golden
blessing, the noble flower of liberation, the
golden chrysanthemum club, practicing for
liberation, helping everyone, the blessing club, joyful club, practicing for
liberation, the blessing club, the golden blessing club, the royal blessing club, the
national
golden club, practicing the sixfold harmony, respect, harmony, practice and duty, mind harmony,
constant equality,
speech harmony, encouraging
each other, precept harmony, Dharma, supreme harmony,
towards
liberation, the blessing of peace,
understanding and
compassion, the club, and those who are
Buddhists practicing at Ba
V temple, always together.  Love
to pray for no harm,
always together,
love to pray for
no harm
[music]